README.md, before:

postgres-version-manager-go
===========================
[![No Maintenance Intended](http://unmaintained.tech/badge.svg)](http://unmaintained.tech)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache--2.0%20OR%20MIT%20OR%20CC0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
[![goreleaser](https://github.com/offscale/postgres-version-manager-go/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/offscale/postgres-version-manager-go/actions/workflows/release.yml)

Like [`rvm`](https://rvm.io)/[`nvm`](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) but for PostgreSQL. Installs any of 140+ different versions of PostgreSQL for your system.

## Development

Tested on Go 1.20, `git clone` this repo then `go build ./cmd`

## Usage

    PostgreSQL version manager
    Usage: pvm-go [--postgres-version POSTGRES-VERSION] [--port PORT] [--database DATABASE] [--username USERNAME] [--password PASSWORD] [--version-manager-root VERSION_MANAGER_ROOT] [--runtime-path RUNTIME-PATH] [--data-path DATA-PATH] [--binary-path BINARY-PATH] [--logs-path LOGS-PATH] [--locale LOCALE] [--binary-repository-url BINARY-REPOSITORY-URL] [--config CONFIG] [--no-config-read] [--no-config-write] [--no-remote] <command> [<args>]
    
    Commands:
    env                    Print out associated environment variables
    get-path               One of: bin, data, log, runtime
    install                Install specified PostgreSQL version
    install-service        Install service (daemon), e.g., systemd
    ls                     List what versions of PostgreSQL are installed
    ls-remote              List what versions of PostgreSQL are available
    ping                   Confirm server is online and auth works
    start                  Start specified PostgreSQL server
    stop                   Stop specific (running) PostgreSQL server
    uri                    Print out database connection string

#### Global options

Common to all subcommands

    --postgres-version POSTGRES-VERSION [default: latest, env: POSTGRES_VERSION]
    --port PORT, -p PORT [default: 5432, env: PGPORT]
    --database DATABASE, -d DATABASE [default: database, env: POSTGRES_DATABASE]
    --username USERNAME, -u USERNAME [default: username, env: POSTGRES_USERNAME]
    --password PASSWORD [default: password, env: POSTGRES_PASSWORD]
    --version-manager-root VERSION_MANAGER_ROOT [default: $HOME/postgres-version-manager, env: VERSION_MANAGER_ROOT]
    --runtime-path RUNTIME-PATH [default: $HOME/postgres-version-manager/latest/run, env: RUNTIME_PATH]
    --data-path DATA-PATH [default: $HOME/postgres-version-manager/latest/data, env: PGDATA]
    --binary-path BINARY-PATH [default: $HOME/postgres-version-manager/latest/bin, env: BINARY_PATH]
    --logs-path LOGS-PATH [default: $HOME/postgres-version-manager/latest/logs, env: LOGS_PATH]
    --locale LOCALE [default: en_US.UTF-8, env: LC_ALL]
    --binary-repository-url BINARY-REPOSITORY-URL [default: https://repo1.maven.org/maven2, env: BINARY_REPOSITORY_URL]
    --config CONFIG, -c CONFIG
    Config filepath to use [default: $HOME/postgres-version-manager/pvm-config.json]
    --no-config-read       Do not read the config file [default: false]
    --no-config-write      Do not write to config file [default: false]
    --no-remote            Disable HTTPS calls for everything except 'install' [default: false]
    --help, -h             display this help and exit
    --version              display version and exit

### `env`

Print out associated environment variables

    Usage: pvm-go env

### `start`

Start specified PostgreSQL server

    Usage: pvm-go start [--no-install] [POSTGRES_VERSION]
    
    Positional arguments:
    POSTGRES_VERSION
    
    Options:
    --no-install           Inverts default of installing nonexistent version [default: false]

### `stop`

Stop specific (running) PostgreSQL server

    Usage: pvm-go stop [POSTGRES_VERSION]
    
    Positional arguments:
    POSTGRES_VERSION

### `install`

Install specified PostgreSQL version
    
    Usage: pvm-go install [POSTGRES_VERSION]
    
    Positional arguments:
    POSTGRES_VERSION

### `ls`

List what versions of PostgreSQL are installed

    Usage: pvm-go ls

### `ls-remote`

List what versions of PostgreSQL are available

    Usage: pvm-go ls-remote

### `ping`

Confirm server is online and auth works

    Usage: pvm-go ping [POSTGRES_VERSION]
    
    Positional arguments:
    POSTGRES_VERSION

### `get-data-path`

Get data path, i.e., where pg_hba and postgres.conf are for specified PostgreSQL version

    Usage: pvm-go get-path [DIRECTORYTOFIND]
    
    Positional arguments:
    DIRECTORYTOFIND        One of: bin, data, log, runtime

### `install-service`

Install service (daemon), e.g., systemd

    Usage: pvm-go install-service

    Commands:
    systemd                Install systemd service

#### `systemd`

Install systemd service

    Usage: pvm-go install-service systemd [--service-install-path SERVICE-INSTALL-PATH]
    
    Options:
    --service-install-path SERVICE-INSTALL-PATH [default: /etc/systemd/system/postgresql.service]

### uri

Print out database connection string

    Usage: pvm-go uri

---

## License

Licensed under any of:

- Apache License, Version 2.0 ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or <https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0>)
- MIT license ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or <https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT>)
- CC0 license ([LICENSE-CC0](LICENSE-CC0) or <https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/legalcode>)

at your option.

### Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be
licensed as above, without any additional terms or conditions.

Commit message:

[pvm/{quote_{unix,windows},subcommand}.go] Quote environment variables within `env` subcommand ; [README.md] Show how to export environment variables from `env` subcommand

README.md, after:

postgres-version-manager-go
===========================
[![No Maintenance Intended](http://unmaintained.tech/badge.svg)](http://unmaintained.tech)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache--2.0%20OR%20MIT%20OR%20CC0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
[![goreleaser](https://github.com/offscale/postgres-version-manager-go/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/offscale/postgres-version-manager-go/actions/workflows/release.yml)

Like [`rvm`](https://rvm.io)/[`nvm`](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) but for PostgreSQL. Installs any of 140+ different versions of PostgreSQL for your system.

## Development

Tested on Go 1.20, `git clone` this repo then `go build ./cmd`

## Usage

    PostgreSQL version manager
    Usage: pvm-go [--postgres-version POSTGRES-VERSION] [--port PORT] [--database DATABASE] [--username USERNAME] [--password PASSWORD] [--version-manager-root VERSION_MANAGER_ROOT] [--runtime-path RUNTIME-PATH] [--data-path DATA-PATH] [--binary-path BINARY-PATH] [--logs-path LOGS-PATH] [--locale LOCALE] [--binary-repository-url BINARY-REPOSITORY-URL] [--config CONFIG] [--no-config-read] [--no-config-write] [--no-remote] <command> [<args>]
    
    Commands:
    env                    Print out associated environment variables
    get-path               One of: bin, data, log, runtime
    install                Install specified PostgreSQL version
    install-service        Install service (daemon), e.g., systemd
    ls                     List what versions of PostgreSQL are installed
    ls-remote              List what versions of PostgreSQL are available
    ping                   Confirm server is online and auth works
    start                  Start specified PostgreSQL server
    stop                   Stop specific (running) PostgreSQL server
    uri                    Print out database connection string

#### Global options

Common to all subcommands

    --postgres-version POSTGRES-VERSION [default: latest, env: POSTGRES_VERSION]
    --port PORT, -p PORT [default: 5432, env: PGPORT]
    --database DATABASE, -d DATABASE [default: database, env: POSTGRES_DATABASE]
    --username USERNAME, -u USERNAME [default: username, env: POSTGRES_USERNAME]
    --password PASSWORD [default: password, env: POSTGRES_PASSWORD]
    --version-manager-root VERSION_MANAGER_ROOT [default: $HOME/postgres-version-manager, env: VERSION_MANAGER_ROOT]
    --runtime-path RUNTIME-PATH [default: $HOME/postgres-version-manager/latest/run, env: RUNTIME_PATH]
    --data-path DATA-PATH [default: $HOME/postgres-version-manager/latest/data, env: PGDATA]
    --binary-path BINARY-PATH [default: $HOME/postgres-version-manager/latest/bin, env: BINARY_PATH]
    --logs-path LOGS-PATH [default: $HOME/postgres-version-manager/latest/logs, env: LOGS_PATH]
    --locale LOCALE [default: en_US.UTF-8, env: LC_ALL]
    --binary-repository-url BINARY-REPOSITORY-URL [default: https://repo1.maven.org/maven2, env: BINARY_REPOSITORY_URL]
    --config CONFIG, -c CONFIG
    Config filepath to use [default: $HOME/postgres-version-manager/pvm-config.json]
    --no-config-read       Do not read the config file [default: false]
    --no-config-write      Do not write to config file [default: false]
    --no-remote            Disable HTTPS calls for everything except 'install' [default: false]
    --help, -h             display this help and exit
    --version              display version and exit

### `env`

Print out associated environment variables

    Usage: pvm-go env

To export to your shell on POSIX, UNIX, Linux:
```sh
export $(pvm-go env | xargs -L 1)
```

Or on Windows Batch:
```cmd
FOR /F "tokens=4*" %%G IN ('pvm-go env') DO SET %%G 
```

### `start`

Start specified PostgreSQL server

    Usage: pvm-go start [--no-install] [POSTGRES_VERSION]
    
    Positional arguments:
    POSTGRES_VERSION
    
    Options:
    --no-install           Inverts default of installing nonexistent version [default: false]

### `stop`

Stop specific (running) PostgreSQL server

    Usage: pvm-go stop [POSTGRES_VERSION]
    
    Positional arguments:
    POSTGRES_VERSION

### `install`

Install specified PostgreSQL version
    
    Usage: pvm-go install [POSTGRES_VERSION]
    
    Positional arguments:
    POSTGRES_VERSION

### `ls`

List what versions of PostgreSQL are installed

    Usage: pvm-go ls

### `ls-remote`

List what versions of PostgreSQL are available

    Usage: pvm-go ls-remote

### `ping`

Confirm server is online and auth works

    Usage: pvm-go ping [POSTGRES_VERSION]
    
    Positional arguments:
    POSTGRES_VERSION

### `get-data-path`

Get data path, i.e., where pg_hba and postgres.conf are for specified PostgreSQL version

    Usage: pvm-go get-path [DIRECTORYTOFIND]
    
    Positional arguments:
    DIRECTORYTOFIND        One of: bin, data, log, runtime

### `install-service`

Install service (daemon), e.g., systemd

    Usage: pvm-go install-service

    Commands:
    systemd                Install systemd service

#### `systemd`

Install systemd service

    Usage: pvm-go install-service systemd [--service-install-path SERVICE-INSTALL-PATH]
    
    Options:
    --service-install-path SERVICE-INSTALL-PATH [default: /etc/systemd/system/postgresql.service]

### `uri`

Print out database connection string

    Usage: pvm-go uri

---

## License

Licensed under any of:

- Apache License, Version 2.0 ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or <https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0>)
- MIT license ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or <https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT>)
- CC0 license ([LICENSE-CC0](LICENSE-CC0) or <https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/legalcode>)

at your option.

### Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be
licensed as above, without any additional terms or conditions.
